n Switch the MIDI parameter "ControlSource" on the sending machine to off. This is necessary for closed loop, and both must have ControlSource off. 
n Select another MIDI parameter "Source #" for one of them, so they send on another octave. 

SOUNDDESIGNER  
SoundDesigner subtracts 2 from the device ID number. 

MIDI Sample Dump Other Device Implementations Continued 

SOUNDDESIGNER -> ECHOPLEX 
SoundDesigner and the Echoplex do not agree on how to calculate the checksum. The Echoplex sends a NAK (=Not Acknowledge) after every data-package. Luckily SoundDesigner ignores all handshake messages and the Echoplex stores it anyway so you will end up with the correct sample in your Echoplex. 

ALCHEMY  
Alchemy needs to initiate sample dumps in both directions. 
Alchemy actually sends the sample number off by one. When you ask for sample #5 it actually requests #4 from the Echoplex. 


ECHOPLEX -> ALCHEMY 
Go into Upload-mode on the Echoplex. 
Send a request from Alchemy (menu: Network: Get Sound). 


ALCHEMY -> ECHOPLEX 
Go into Upload-mode on the Echoplex. 
Start the dump from Alchemy (menu: Network: Put Sound) 
Make sure the sample length actually has the number of samples that you want to transmit. Sometimes Alchemy stores short sounds in huge files filling the end with zeroes. 

Other Device Implementations MIDI Sample Dump Continued 


K2000  
The K2000 reserves the samples 1-199 for ROM samples which can not be dumped or overwritten. 
It automatically adds 200 to incoming samples with sample numbers <200. 
Sample number 0 writes an incoming sample to the first free place. 
The K2000 always adds 1 to the sample number. 
You have to set the device ID (called Sysex ID) to the same as on the Echoplex. Setting it to 127 doesnt do the standard behavior (accepting all IDs), so make sure they are equal on both units. 

ECHOPLEX -> K2000 
Start sending from the Echoplex at any time. Make sure the sample you write to is free. 
You need to go into the Edit Keymap to see your new sample. It is probably best if you add a new Keymap with your new sample. 


K2000 -> ECHOPLEX 
Go into Upload-mode on the Echoplex. Select the right sample number and send a Request (Undo-button). You can also start the dump from the K2000. The function is well 
hidden in the sample editor. Press <Dump>. The Echoplex will ignore 

MIDI Sample Dump Other Device Implementations Continued 
the sample number you send and store it in the loop number you defined in the Echoplex Upload-mode (Record-button). 



E-MU E64 
The device ID of the E-MU is set to 127 and cannot be changed. It therefore will always accept all samples, independent of your Device ID. 

ECHOPLEX -> E-MU E64 
The E-MU accepts dumps at any time. Just start sending from the Echoplex. 


E-MU E64 -> ECHOPLEX 
Send a Request from the Echoplex at any time. (faster) 
or 
Start the dump from the E-MU. This is very slow! 

Sample Dump Trouble Shooting MIDI Sample Dump 
MIDI Sample Dump is a standard. However, not all samplers implement this standard the same way. This can lead to problems. The Echoplex displays information during the Sample Dump process that can help you understand what is going on. 

H  header received  
I  header received but ignored (e.g. too long)  
L  data received (load data packet)  
?  wrong packet received (e.g. Sysex for other machines)  
A  ACK received  
N  NAK received  
W  WAIT received  
C  CANCEL received  
J  junk received (e.g. notes, ignored)  
- nothing received  

SAMPLE DUMP DISPLAY 
Display for received messages 
Display for sent messages 
d data sent (dump data packet) 

10-20 Echoplex Digital Pro Plus Users Manual 
MIDI Sample Dump Sample Dump Trouble Shooting Continued 
r dump request sent c Cancel sent H Header sent 
Error values 
In case of an error (display 'E') the red display shows an error number. 
These mean the following: 
1 overrun (data was sent too fast) 
2 buffer overflow (too much data too fast) 
3 timeout (aborted transmission in the midst of a packet) 
4 received value out of range 
5 unexpected value (expected a specific value but received something else) 
6 checksum error 

CHAPTER 11 




MIDI SysEx 
