Introduction MIDI Sample Dump 
The Echoplex uses the MIDI Sample Dump Standard to transfer the loop you recorded to another Echoplex, sampler, or even your computer. 
MIDI Sample Dump is an extension of the MIDI standard which has been used by many samplers in the past 20 years. It uses SysEx to transmit the audio data. Unfortunately, not all samplers implement sample dump exactly the same way. To give you the possibility of transferring samples between a wide range of samplers we have provided a flexible variety of of settings for the MIDI sample dump parameters in the Echoplex. 
The following sections give a short introduction into some details of the MIDI Sample Dump that may help you. 

GENERAL SAMPLE DUMP INFO 
Connections 
The minimal MIDI patch is to connect the MIDI Out Port of the sending unit to the MIDI In Port of the receiving unit. 


Figure x.1: MIDI Dump open loop connection 

MIDI Sample Dump Introduction Continued 
Unit A sends a header first, containing general information about the sample to be sent. Then it divides the sound data into packets and sends one packet at a time. 


Figure x.2: MIDI dump transfer with open loop connection 


Figure x.3: MIDI dump closed loop connection 
This allows unit B to acknowledge each package as it arrives. This is faster and safer than the open loop method. 
Reference - MIDI Sample Dump 10-3 

Introduction MIDI Sample Dump Continued 

Figure x.4: MIDI Dump transfer with closed loop 
This gives the receiving unit B an opportunity to check each incoming packet and ask for a retransmit if necessary. 


MIDI Sample Dump Introduction Continued 

Who starts sending? 
The previous section showed the case where the sample dump was initiated from the sending unit A. This is not always possible or easy. Some samplers dont even have a sample dump button or menu command. They completely rely on the other unit to initiate the transfer. This means the receiving unit has to send a sample dump request first. The sending unit then reacts by sending the desired dump. 


Figure x.5: MIDI Dump request initiates dump 
Of course, this works only with a closed loop connection. 

Sample Number 
The Sample Dump header and request contain several pieces of information about the sample. The most important one for the user is the sample number. 

Introduction MIDI Sample Dump Continued 
Device ID 
A sampler can store many samples. These samples are usually indexed. In a MIDI sample dump the sender tells the receiving unit what sample number it is sending. Correspondingly the receiving unit can request a specific sample number. The sample number can range from 0 to 16383. Usually not all numbers are accessible to the user. 
Unfortunately some samplers start numbering the samples with 0 and others with 1, while still others show you a 1 but actually send them as sample number 0! You have to find out what numbering system your sampler uses. If you cant find it in your manual you have to try it out. Send a sample as #10 and see whether it arrives as #9, #10 or #11. 
See the following sections for information on how sample numbers are used in the Echoplex. 
The device ID of Sysex messages (sample dumps are Sysex messages) are used to make sure that the message is received only by the device that you wanted to send it to. 
Two units have to have the same ID in order to talk with each other. 
The name Device ID is somewhat misleading. Sysex channel would be more appropriate. Think of it as the equivalent of the MIDI channel. But be careful, MIDI channel and Device ID dont have to be the same value! 
It is possible to have the MIDI notes go through channel 1 to one unit and the MIDI sysex through device ID 114 to another unit. 
Device IDs can be in the range from 0 to 127. 
A device ID of 127 has a special meaning. If you set the receiving unit to 127, all device IDs are accepted. If you set the sending unit to 127, all receiving units should therefore accept your SYSEX data. This is called broadcasting. 
See the following sections for information on how device IDs are used in the Echoplex. 

MIDI Sample Dump Introduction Continued 
ECHOPLEX SAMPLE DUMP 
Connections 
The Echoplex allows you to transfer the sound data through open loop connections (one cable) and closed loop connections (two cables). If you have a choice always use closed loops. The transmission will be approximately twice as fast. 

Who starts sending? 
The Echoplex can either initiate a sample dump itself (with the Dump button in parameter mode P3) or respond to a sample dump request. 
Responding to a request is only possible while in Upload-mode. Enter this state by pressing the Load button in parameter mode P3. During normal operation all Sample Dump messages are ignored. 

Loop Numbers and Sample Numbers 
Many samplers have sample numbers up to 999. Since the Echoplex has a maximum of 16 loops we have a problem in how to match an incoming sample (e.g. #254) with a loop number. 
The Echoplex gives you the possibility to set a current loop number and a current sample number as special Sample Dump parameters. While in Upload-mode press Record to edit the loop number and Overdub to edit the sample number. 
Reference - MIDI Sample Dump 10-7 

Introduction MIDI Sample Dump Continued 
When you send the current loop it is always sent with the sample number you defined on the Echoplex. 
Receiving a sample number in a header or a request is somewhat more complex. To give a maximum of flexibility the following scheme is applied to incoming sample numbers: 

Sample Number Accessed Loop (sent or received) 
0 access current loop number. 
1-16 access corresponding loop number 1-16. (if you have that many loops) 
17-16383 access current loop number. (>999 are clipped to 999) 
The current sample number is then set to this value. Sample numbers on the Echoplex range from 0 to 999. 
Device ID 
The device ID of the Echoplex can be changed while in Upload-mode. Press Multiply to see the device ID. Press it again to start incrementing the value. The longer you press, the faster the value will be incremented. Broadcasting (device id=127) is implemented. 

MIDI Sample Dump Sample Dump User Guide 
SENDING A DUMP (DUMP BUTTON) 
The Dump button in the MIDI (P3) parameters of the Echoplex is used to send a dump to another device. 

n  You see a 'd' blinking, indicating that data is dumped.  
n  Pressing the Parameter button while dumping aborts the  
transmission.  

n The device ID is 1. n The sample number is the same as the loop number. 

SENDING & RECEIVING (UPLOAD BUTTON) 
Press Load to enter the Upload-Mode. 
n You see a '-' blinking, indicating that the Echoplex waits for specific commands, which can come from the buttons or via MIDI. 
n The Upload-mode allows much more than just uploading. You can also send a dump from it or change sample dump parameters. 

Sample Dump User Guide MIDI Sample Dump Continued 
Button commands in Upload-mode 

PARAMETER 
Exits the Upload-mode. You will see the P3 display again. If you received a loop it may be stored in a loop other than the one that you are hearing now. Leave the parameter mode and select the loop with the Next button. 
