

RECORD 
Changes current loop number. The default is the loop you where listening to. Maximum range from 0 to 16 (depends on the number of loops). Ln is shown in the green display. 


MULTIPLY 
Changes the device ID. The default is 1. Range from 0 to 127. 127 is used to broadcast to all receivers/accept all senders. Id is shown in the green display. 


OVERDUB 
Changes current sample number. The default is the current loop number. Range from 0 to 999. Sn is shown in the green display 

INSERT 
Reserved. 
MUTE 
Reserved. 

MIDI Sample Dump Sample Dump User Guide Continued 

UNDO (=DUMP) 
Send the current loop. The receiving unit will store it as the current sample number. 


NEXT (=UPLOAD) 
Request a dump from the other unit. The current sample number will be sent by the other unit and stored in the current loop. This works only in a closed loop (2 MIDI cables). 
The three value buttons (Record, Overdub, Multiply) work the same way. The first press shows the current value. Subsequent presses increment the value. If you press the button for a long time it starts repeating. The repeat rate speeds up the longer you press. The maximum speed is reached after approximately 100 increments. When the maximum value is reached, the value is set to minimum (usually 0 or 1) and the repeat rate slows down to give you the possibility to release the button. 

Commands received via MIDI 
While in Upload-mode the following MIDI Sysex commands are accepted: 


SAMPLEHEADER (SAMPLENUMBER) 
Samples with the Sample Numbers 1-16 are stored in the corresponding loop. All other Sample Numbers are ignored and the sample is stored in the current loop number. 

Sample Dump User Guide MIDI Sample Dump Continued 
n  AB  Connect MIDI-Out of Echoplex A with MIDI-In of Echoplex B.  
n  AB  Press Parameters on both units, until they are both in the MIDI parameter mode. (A shows 'P3') (B shows 'P3')  
n  B  Press Load on Echoplex B. (goes into Upload-Mode showing '-')  
n  A  Press Dump on Echoplex A. (A starts dumping showing 'd') (B starts uploading showing 'U')  
n  Wait until the entire loop is sent (A shows 'P3' again) (B shows '-' again)  
n  B  Press Parameters on B to exit Upload-Mode (B shows 'P3' again)  
n  Echoplex B has now uploaded the loop.  


SAMPLEREQUEST (SAMPLENUMBER) 
If Sample Numbers 1-16 are requested the corresponding loop is sent. All other Sample Numbers are ignored and the current loop is sent as the requested Sample Number. 
Examples 
The Echoplex is capable of starting the transmission and of passively waiting until the other unit takes control. The following examples give a few examples for transmitting loops from one Echoplex to another one. 

ECHOPLEX A -> ECHOPLEX B (OPEN LOOP) 
MIDI Sample Dump Sample Dump User Guide Continued 
n  AB  Set MIDI ControlSource to Off to avoid MIDI loops Connect MIDI-Out of Echoplex A with MIDI-In of Echoplex B. Connect MIDI-Out of Echoplex B with MIDI-In of Echoplex A.  
n  AB  Press Parameters on both units, until they are both in the MIDI parameter mode. (A shows 'P3') (B shows 'P3')  
n  B  Press Load on Echoplex B. (goes into Upload-Mode showing '-')  
n  A  Press Dump on Echoplex A. (A starts dumping showing 'd') (B starts uploading showing 'U')  
n  Wait until the entire loop is sent (A shows 'P3' again) (B shows '-' again)  
n  B  Press Parameters on B to exit Upload-Mode (B shows 'P3' again)  
n  Echoplex B has now uploaded the loop.  

ECHOPLEX A => ECHOPLEX B (CLOSED LOOP, A INITIATES) 

ECHOPLEX A => ECHOPLEX B (CLOSED LOOP, B INITIATES) 
n B Press Load on Echoplex B. (goes into Upload-Mode showing '-') 
n A Press Load on Echoplex A. (goes into Upload-Mode showing '-') 
n B Press Load again on Echoplex B. (B sends a SampleRequest to A) (A starts dumping showing 'd') (B starts uploading showing 'U') 
Sample Dump User Guide MIDI Sample Dump Continued 
n  Wait until the entire loop is sent (A shows '-' again) (B shows '-' again)  
n  A  Press Parameters on A to exit Upload-Mode (A shows 'P3' again)  
n  B  Press Parameters on B to exit Upload-Mode (B shows 'P3' again)  
n  Echoplex B has now uploaded the loop.  

Not all samplers or computer programs are capable of all of these possible protocols. Some implement only the open loop protocol, some require a closed loop and don't operate on an open loop. It is even possible that your sampler has no Dump button, but can still handle MIDI Sample Dump when the Echoplex is sending the appropriate commands via MIDI. 

How long will it take? 
Your Sample Dump will probably take a long time. MIDI is slow and samples used in looping tend to be big. The Sample Dump Standard adds a lot of overhead to that to make it even slower. The exact time depends on how long the sample is and whether the receiving unit acknowledges the data packages or not (the Echoplex does). 
Here are a few estimates for the open loop (no acknowledges): 
Sample Length  Transmission Time  
0.1 sec  50 sec  
1.0 sec  8 min 20 sec  
10.0 sec  1 hour 24 min  
100.0 sec  13 hours 54 min  


MIDI Sample Dump Sample Dump User Guide Continued 
And here the closed loop (with acknowledges): 
Sample Length  Transmission Time  
0.1 sec  5.5 sec  
1.0 sec  55 sec  
10.0 sec  9 min 10 sec  
100.0 sec  1 hour 32 min  


Other Device Implementations MIDI Sample Dump 
Here are some known details about other devices implementing MIDI Sample Dump and how they interact with the Echoplex. This is not a complete list. If the device you use is not on here, consult that devices manual or the manufacturer for more information on their Sample Dump implementation. 
ECHOPLEX 
Sending MIDI Sample Dumps from one Echoplex to another one is simple. 
If you are connecting two Echoplexes make sure they don't use the same MIDI channel and/or the MIDI parameter "ControlSource" is switched off on the sending machines (both machines in a closed loop). This is especially necessary now with the MIDI pipe feature when using closed loop, since any MIDI command received is immediately sent out again. If you forget this, the two machines will send every button you press back and forth to each other in an infinite loop. 
Unhook them and do one of the following: 
n Choose another MIDI channel on one of them. 
