
SWITCHQUANTIZE DISPLAY 
When SwitchQuantize = Cycle, Loop, Confirm, ConfirmCycle, or ConfirmLoop, the Echoplex waits for the designated point or action before switching loops after NextLoop is pressed or a MIDI LoopTrigger is received. 
During this waiting period the LoopTime Display changes to show which loop we are about to switch in to. It will display this as L 1, L 2, L 3, etc. Additional presses of NextLoop or received  MIDI LoopTriggers will update the display to show the target Loop. 

LoopTime Display 
Continued 


PRESET DISPLAY 
When you are in the Preset Editor, the LoopTime Display shows the Preset number as Pr #. No dot after Pr indicates that this Preset is the last one that has been loaded into the playing state Preset 0. If there is a dot after Pr, it is not the one currently loaded. When the display shows PrE it means that the Preset 0 parameter settings have been modified since the preset was loaded to them. 
With the display indicators it should be easy to tell in the editor which Preset you are currently using, and if there are new changes made that you may want to save. 
When a MIDI Program Change command is received or when you use the front panel buttons to select a Preset, the LoopTime Display briefly changes to show the preset you are selecting. It displays it  as P n, where n is the preset number. 
See the Preset section for more details. 

See also: Record, Multiply, Insert, Sync, Feedback, FeedBkCont, VolumeCont, Parameter Button, Quantize, SwitchQuantize, NextLoop, Presets 
MIDI LED 
Front Panel 

Indicates the MIDI Row of the Parameter Matrix is selected; Indicates Loop StartPoint during Play Mode. 
PARAMETER EDITING MODE 
The MIDI LED is illuminated when the MIDI Row of the Parameter Matrix has been selected for editing with the Parameter Button. The Multiple Display will also show P3 when this row is selected in the Parameter Editing Mode. 
The MIDI Row consists of the Parameters related to MIDI control of the Echoplex. These are Channel, ControlSource, Source#, VolumeCont, FeedBKCont, Dump, and Load. 

PLAY MODE 
During Play Mode the MIDI LED is part of the Visual Tempo Guide. It blinks at each Loop StartPoint. This will only blink if your loop has multiple cycles.  When there is only one cycle only the Switches LED blinks to indicate the Cycle StartPoint. 

See also: Parameter Button, Multiple Display, Parameter Matrix, Visual Tempo Guide 
MIDI Ports 
Back Panel 

Enable communication with other MIDI devices. 
The MIDI In, Out, and Thru ports are standard equipment on most MIDI-capable devices. These ports are connected to other devices with standard MIDI cables available at any music store. 
The MIDI Out port is used to send messages originating at the Echoplex Digital Pro. These include the messages generated by button pushes (if ControlSource is not Off; see ControlSource for more information), sample dumps (see Dump) and a single Note On message sent at the start of each loop (see Sync). 
The MIDI In port  is used to received messages from other MIDI instruments. These include the messages to remotely control button pushes (see ControlSource), sample dumps (see Load) and a MIDI clocks (see 8ths/Cycle). 
The MIDI Thru port echoes incoming information for the benefit of additional MIDI devices that may be "daisy-chained" with the Echoplex Digital Pro. Messages originating at the Echoplex are sent out the MIDI Out port only, and are not transmitted out the MIDI Thru port. 
One variation worth noting is the situation when several Echoplexes are daisy-chained, with the MIDI Out of each connected to the MIDI In of the next. In this case, it may appear that incoming MIDI messages are relayed out the MIDI Out port in addition to the MIDI Thru port, which may seem puzzling. The logic behind this is not inconsistent, however. Incoming MIDI messages from the master Echoplex are causing actions to occur in each slave. Each of these actions generates a new MIDI message, which is transmitted out the MIDI Out port of the slave. 
See Chapter 3 for a summary of the many MIDI functions of the Echoplex Digital Pro. 

Mix Knob 
Front Panel 

Controls the mix between the input and the loop. 
This controls the mix between the input signal and the loop. If you are using the Echoplex Digital Pro in an effects loop, then you will probably want to set this so that the input and loop are evenly balanced, or so that the input is a little louder than the loop (this will facilitate soloing over the loop). If you are using the Echoplex Digital Pro in conjunction with a mixer, so that you can hear the input signal whether or not the Echoplex is on, then set the Mix control all the way clockwise to Loop. 

Multiple Display 
Front Panel 

Displays the current cycle. Alternately shows other information depending on context. 
After Multiply or Insert has been used to add cycles to a loop, the Multiple Display will show the current Cycle. You will see it increment as the loop progresses through the cycles. 
The Multiple Display will be empty after the initial loop is recorded, since there is only one cycle. Only after Multiply or Insert will it show anything. 
If you put the loop into Reverse, you will see the cycles count backwards. 
In the Parameter Editing Mode, the Multiple Display shows the current row selected in the Parameter Matrix. 
In the Preset Editor, the Multiple Display shows the current Preset being edited. 

See also: Multiply, Insert, Parameter Button, Presets. 
Output Jack 
Back Panel 

Audio output. Connect it to your amplifier or preamp. 
This line-level output jack accepts standard 1/4 mono phone plugs. The output is a mix of the input and the current loop, with relative volumes determined by the position of the Mix knob, and overall volume determined by the Output knob. 

See also: Mix Knob, Output Knob. 
Output Knob 
Front Panel 

Controls the overall output volume. 
Overdub Jack 
Back Panel 

A normally-open footswitch plugged into this jack can trigger Overdub operations. 
This jack is provided for those who want to use their own footswitches to control Overdub operations. Some may prefer piano-style pedals to the Overdub button on the supplied footpedal. 

Parameter Button 
Front Panel 

Enters Parameter editing mode, selects row in Parameter Matrix. 
When the Parameter Button is pressed the Echoplex enters the Parameter Editing Mode. In this state you can edit the various Parameters described in the Parameters section of this manual. Your loop will continue playing while you are in the Parameter Editing Mode. 

PARAMETER EDITING 
The Parameters are arranged in a matrix so you can easily find and access the parameter you wish to edit. The Parameter Matrix is shown in the text on the front panel of the Echoplex. When you first press the Parameter Button to enter the Parameter Editing Mode the Timing LED will be illuminated and P1 will be displayed in the Multiple Display. This indicates that the row of timing related parameters next to the Timing LED are available for editing. 
Each successive press of the Parameter Button selects the next row of the matrix. The second press selects the Switches Row, with the Switches LED illuminated and P2 in the Multiple Display. The third press selects the MIDI Row, and the fourth press selects the Loops Row. 
Once you have selected the row with the Parameter you wish to edit, press the Function Button over that Parameter to select it. The current value of that Parameter will be displayed in the LoopTime Display. Continue pressing that Function Button to change the value of that 
Parameter. 
When you have finished editing, press the Parameter Button to cycle back to Play Mode. A Long-Press of the Parameter Button always puts you back in Play Mode, which is convenient for when you are not looking directly at the Echoplex. 
Your new Parameter setting will be saved, even if you turn off the power. 

Parameter Button 
Continued 

PRESSING PARAMETER WITH MIDI 
The Parameter Button can be virtually pressed with a MIDI command. The MIDI VirtualButton command for the Parameter Button is located at Source# + 0. The Parameter VirtualButton works exactly like pressing the Parameter Button on the front panel. 
You can also change Parameters on the fly by using Parameter Presets and MIDI Program Change commands. 

RESETTING PARAMETERS 
The Parameters can be reset to the factory defaults. To do this, hold down the Parameter Button when you turn on the power to the Echoplex. Once the start up screen displays, you can release it. When the Echoplex has fully booted up, all of the Parameters will be reset. 
See also: Chapter 2 

SmartButtons Immediate Action Play Mode 
SmartButton control offers a quick way to access several common functions when using MIDI control. 
