IMMEDIATE ACTION 
This is a term used in the Reference chapter to describe buttons that initiate an operation as soon as you press them, in contrast to buttons that set parameters. 

QUANTIZE 
When an action is Quantized it means it will waits until an appropriate rhythmic moment before it executes.  The Quantize parameters let you choose whether actions wait until the next Loop StartPoint, the next Cycle StartPoint, or the next Cycle Subdivision point (or 8th). 

ROUNDED AND UNROUNDED 
Some functions, like Multiply and Insert, are designed to automatically operate for an integer number of Cycles. If you end the operation sometime in the middle of the Cycle, it will continue operating until the end of the cycle time so that you end up with an even rhythm. This is called Rounding, because it rounds off to the nearest integer number of Cycles. The RoundMode parameter lets you determine how the Echoplex operates while Rounding. 
It is possible for the user to force a Rounded action to end without Rounding. This is referred to as an UnRounded operation. For example, an UnRounded Multiply is a Multiply that is forced to end without reaching the end of the cycle. 

SECTION 
I 


User Guide 
This section will help you get started using the Echoplex and provide instruction on using some of the Echoplexs most common features. For greater detail and complete information about all Echoplex features, please consult Section II, the Reference Guide.  
This section contains the following chapters:  
n  Chapter 1 - Quick Start  
n  Chapter 2 - Front, Back, and Underfoot  
n  Chapter 3 - MIDI  

USER GUIDE INTRODUCTION 
CHAPTER 
1 


Quick Start 
C
ongratulations! Youre in for more fun than you can possibly imagine, playing music with the Echoplex Digital Pro Plus. This is the spiritual successor to the original Echoplex, a device made by Maestro in the 1960s that relied on tape loops to create effects. It was used extensively by the Jimi Hendrix, the Doors, and many others. Now, the temperamental tape technology that terminated the triumph of the original Echoplex has been replaced by high-fidelity, utterly consistent digital technology. Not only does this result in increased sound quality, but the flexibility afforded by programmable digital control also makes possible a much wider range of performance options. 

INSTANT GRATIFICATION AND DEPTH 
One of the great things about the Echoplex Digital Pro is that it offers both instant gratification and depth. Once you hook it up, it will probably take you about 10 minutes to learn how to work the basic functions and start making music. After that, you may be intoxicated with power for an hour or two before youre ready to come back and learn more. The Echoplex Digital Pro will reward further study, because there are layers of refinements that will allow you to create more complex pieces with interesting variations. But, because you start making cool music from day 1, you can learn to use these refinements at your own pace, gradually adding to your bag of Echoplex tricks when you have the time and energy. Weve tried to make that process as efficient for you as possible by providing you with a carefully-planned front panel, footpedal, and manual. 
In the next few paragraphs, youll learn the basics of using your Echoplex Digital Pro. After youve recovered from the shocking joy of your first loops, browse through this manual at your leisure. Youll discover lots of new ideas that will keep you coming back time after time. 

BEFORE POWERING UP 

Make the connections 
The basic connections for using the Echoplex Digital Pro are quite simple: power, audio in and out, and the optional footpedal. Follow along with the steps below, and refer to Figures 2.1 and 2.3 in Chapter 2 for more information. 

1. 
Check that the Power Selector Switch on the back of the unit is set properly for your power source115V for US- and Japanese-style power outlets, or 230V for European-style. If it is set incorrectly, change it to the correct setting with a screwdriver. 

2. 
Plug the Echoplex Digital Pro into a power source using the supplied power cord. 

3. 
If you own the optional EFC-7 footpedal, connect it to the Footpedal jack on the back panel using a standard guitar cord with 1/4" phone plugs on each end. 

4. 
Connect an audio source to the Echoplexs back-panel Audio Input jack with a standard guitar cord, or plug a high-impedance microphone directly into the jack. The Echoplex Digital Pro can accept microphone-level, instrument-level, and line-level inputs (along with anything in-between). 

5. 
Connect the Echoplexs Audio Output jack to an amplifier, mixer, or preamp to let you hear whats happening! 


These are all the basic connections. See Chapter 2 for information on additional possibilities. 



Turn it On 
Use the power switch at the right of the Echoplex Digital Pro to turn it on. The display will briefly show the software version number and then switch to the standard display (see the section titled The Display in Chapter 2). 

LEVEL ADJUSTMENT 

Set the Levels 
1. 
Turn the Output knob all the way off. 

2. 
Turn the Feedback Knob all the way up. This is the best setting for most uses of the Echoplex Digital Pro. See Feedback Knob in the Reference chapter for more information. 

3. 
The Mix knob lets you balance the volumes of your playing and loop playback. Set it to the half-way point (straight up) to start with. 

4. 
Set the Input knob so that the LED light labeled Input is dark when youre not playing anything, green when you play at normal levels, and orange when you play at your loudest levels. This light will turn red if you overload the Echoplex input. Fortunately, the Echoplex has a built in limiter to protect you from causing ugly digital distortion in your loops. However, if you are engaging the limiter the audio recorded in your loop will still not be a perfect representation of what you played. If this happens, turn down the Input level. 

5. 
Play your instrument and adjust the Output knob until you reach a pleasant listening volume. 

6. 
The LED labeled Feedbk indicates the level of the audio recorded in the current loop. This turns red to indicate digital distortion in the loop. If you see this after Recording and Overdubbing a loop, your Input level is set too high. 


START LOOPING! 



Record 
Its easy to record your first loop. 

1. 
Press the Record button. 

2. 
Play a few notes. 

3. 
Press the Record button. 

