
3. 
If your sequencer has a special area for System Exclusive dumps, enter that area and press the Receive button. Otherwise, select a track to receive the dump and press the Record button on your sequencer. 

4. 
Press the Parameter button on the Echoplex Digital Pro until the light next to the word MIDI is lit, and then press the Undo (Dump) button to start the dump. As the dump progresses, the numbers in the display on the Echoplex Digital Pro will change to indicate dump progress. This type of exchange over MIDI is never fast, unfortunately. Transmission time will be 10 to 15 times the length of the current loop. 

5. 
You can cancel the dump at any time by pressing any button. 


Dump 
Continued 


Example 4.8: Responding to a Sample Dump Request 
1. 
Record a loop. 

2. 
Connect a MIDI cable from the MIDI Out port on the Echoplex Digital Pro to the MIDI In port on your sequencer, and connect a second cable from the MIDI In port on the Echoplex Digital Pro to the MIDI Out port on your sampler. 

3. 
Press the Parameter button on the Echoplex Digital Pro until the light next to the word MIDI is lit, and then press the NextLoop (Load) button to start the dump. The Echoplex will go into a waiting state where it is ready to respond to Sample Dump Requests. 

4. 
Send a Sample Dump Request from your sampler. The current loop will be sent to the sampler. As the dump progresses, the numbers in the display on the Echoplex Digital Pro will change to reflect the percent of the dump already transmitted.. This type of exchange over MIDI is never fast, unfortunately. Transmission time will be 10 to 15 times the length of the current loop. 

5. 
You can cancel the dump at any time by pressing any button. 


See also: Load, Sample Dump Chapter 
Feedback Immediate Action Play Mode 
Enables fadeouts and evolution of your loops. 
The Feedback level is the amount of signal that is fed from one pass through the loop (or delay) to the next. This is a familiar feature from the world of delays. For most looping operations, Feedback is set to 100%, meaning that the loop will go on forever. 
Unlike a traditional delay, the Feedback control in the Echoplex is available at all times, whether you are Overdubbing new material or not. If you wish to have the Echoplex behave like a traditional Delay in this regard, try setting Loop/Delay=Delay. When you have Loop/Delay=Loop you can also emulate a traditional delay by reducing the Feedback level and leaving Overdub on. 
Because Feedback occurs at the end of a loop, you wont generally hear the effects of changing the Feedback level immediately. If you set the Feedback to 0, for instance, the current loop will play out to its end before you hear the volume drop to 0. 

CONTROLLING FEEDBACK 
Feedback can be set by the Front Panel Feedback Knob, by a footpedal inserted in the Feedback Jack in the rear of the unit, or by MIDI Continuous Controller messages. The specific MIDI Continuous Controller used is set by the FeedBkCont parameter. 

FEEDBACK DISPLAY 
While you change the Feedback setting, the value appears briefly on the LoopTime Display so you can easily see where you are setting it. The value range is displayed as 0 - 127, with 0 being 0% and 127 being 100%. This value range corresponds to MIDI continuous controller values. 

Feedback 
Continued 

FEEDBACK CONTROL IS CONTINUOUS 
Feedback is a continuously variable control. You can change it freely right in the middle of a loop, and you will hear that change in the levels on the next repetition. This allows you to selectively apply Feedback to one portion of your loop, by dropping the Feedback when that section comes by and returning it to 100% for the sections you wish to keep. 

FEEDBACK DURING OVERDUB AND MULTIPLY 
While you are Overdubbing or Multiplying and Feedback is set to 100%, the Feedback level is automatically scaled back to about 95% to prevent overloading the Echoplex with the combination of the old signal and the new. It returns to 100% as soon as you complete your Overdub. 
Setting the Feedback to an intermediate level is a good way to create a smooth fadeout. If you use Overdub and Feedback control together, you can steadily evolve your loops from one place to another by adding new material as the old material steadily disappears. This type of loop evolution is an important technique in looping. 

UNDOING FEEDBACK 
After Feedback has been applied to your loop, it is possible to Undo the effect. If you turn down Feedback to allow you loop to fade away for a while, pressing the Undo button will fade it back in again by stepping back through the previous loop passes. 
Feedback 
Continued 
This happens because the Echoplex considers any pass over the loop with Feedback set less than 100% to be a change of the loop. Just as when the loop is changed by Overdub, the Echoplex writes this new version of the loop into a new section of memory. Undo is then able to take you back to the previous versions of the loop that are still in memory. 

UNDERSTANDING FEEDBACK 
Control over Feedback is one of the most fundamental looping techniques, and has been a part of looping for decades. Without Feedback control your loops just develop to a certain point, abruptly disappear, and you start a new loop. Loops only grow as new material is added, but they don't decay and they dont evolve. So the loop only gets bigger and bigger until you kill it completely. You don't have any continuity, so your loops can't grow and evolve into something else. Using Feedback changes all of this. 
Feedback comes from the old universe of delay effects. The Feedback setting causes the delayed sound to be reduced in volume by a certain amount each time it repeats. In delay effects it is generally used to set how long the delay would last. That concept was applied to looping in some devices, like the Echoplex. When dealing with longer loops Feedback control becomes a very powerful technique for making your loop evolve into something new over time. 
When you've built up a loop, it will have certain elements that dominate and give it a particular character. If you then turn Feedback down a bit, those things slowly begin getting quieter. Then you begin adding new elements to the loop, which will be relatively louder since they have not had any feedback applied. With each repetition you add a little bit more to evolve the loop in a new direction. Those new elements will then begin dominating the loop, and the character will steadily change. When it has changed to something you like, you set the Feedback up to maximum so the level does not reduce with each repeat anymore. 

Feedback 
Continued 
This technique gives a nice evolving effect to the loop, and is a very powerful and expressive tool. By actively controlling the feedback, you can control how quickly this evolution occurs. 

See Also: FeedBkCont, Feedback Knob, Feedback Jack, LoopTime Display, Record, Overdub, Undo 
GeneralReset Immediate Action Play Mode 
Reset all Loops. 
When the number of loops (the value of MoreLoops) is greater than one, the GeneralReset command can be used to reset all the loops at once. 
From the front panel, GeneralReset is done with a Long-Press of the Multiply button while you are in a loop that is already Reset. In other words, first you have to Reset the current loop, then you hold down Multiply for half a second to do a GeneralReset. The extra steps are there by design, to reduce the likelihood of accidentally destroying your loops. 
When you are in a Reset loop and multiple loops are set up, the Multiply LED turns Orange to indicate this special function. 
GeneralReset is also available immediately through MIDI, using the DirectMIDI command for GeneralReset. This is located at Source#+26. 
If you are using the TempoSelect feature, GeneralReset additionally exits the TempoSelect state so that your next loop recordings will not follow your preselected Tempo. If you re-enter TempoSelect, your previous tempo is recalled and you can record in sync to it again. 
Although GeneralReset erases the audio in all the loops, it does not cause the Echoplex to lose sync with external devices. The Echoplex will continue to track the Global MIDI StartPoint (or Beat 1 of the sequencer), so that your next Recording can begin in Sync. 
The following example illustrates how to do a GeneralReset from the front panel. 

See Also: Reset, Record, Multiply, MIDI Command List, Global/Local MIDI Clock, TempoSelect 
Immediate Action HalfSpeed Play Mode 
Play back the loop a half normal speed. 
HalfSpeed switches the playback speed of the loop to half the normal speed, making it an octave lower and twice as long. 
HalfSpeed is an InsertMode option, making it available from the front panel on the Insert Button. HalfSpeed is also available by MIDI. 
When InsertMode=H.SP, the Insert Button becomes the HalfSpeed button. Pressing HalfSpeed switches the current loop an octave lower, to half speed. The Insert LED turns red and the display says H.SP briefly. Press HalfSpeed again and the loop returns to FullSpeed. The LED turns green and F.SP is displayed for a moment. 
The function is reset to Full Speed with Reset, but it can be selected while still in Reset. This allows you to start a loop in half speed with the audio sounding normal, and then switch to full speed. It ends up as double speed, one octave higher! 
All other functions work normally in HalfSpeed. The speed can be switched anytime during playing or Reset, even while in the middle of overdubbing or multiplying! So as you are overdubbing you can switch freely between HalfSpeed and FullSpeed to get interesting octave and speed jumps in the middle of the overdub. 
The sound quality is somewhat reduced during HalfSpeed because the sampling rate for the audio is cut in half. Also note that MIDI piping is slowed down by HalfSpeed, so it is possible to see to see slight delays in very dense MIDI streams. See the MIDI chapter for more details on MIDIpipe. 
See Also: InsertMode 

Immediate Action Insert Play Mode 
Inserts cycles, replaces sections, reverses playback, and lets you rehearse. 
This is a redefinable button, capable of inserting sound into a loop in several different ways, and also capable of reversing the current loop. The behavior is set with the InsertMode parameter. 

INSERTMODE=INSERT OR REHEARSE 
When InsertMode=Insert, the Insert button performs its basic function of inserting segments, or cycles into an existing loop. When InsertMode=Rehearse, all the functions in this section work the same the only difference is in the way that Insert behaves as an alternate ending button for the Record operation. That behavior is described in detail under the "Alternate Endings" section of the Record entry. 
There are a number of variations to examine here. 

