SUS techniques give exciting new timbre and glitch effects, all created in real-time. Real-Time Granular! 

QUANTIZED SUS COMMANDS 
With other settings of the Quantize parameter, the SUS Insert and SUS Multiply start and stop quantized. There will always be an Insert or Multiply of at least one time period as determined by the quantize setting (Loop, Cycle or 8th). Even if you quickly tap the button such that it is actually released before the start of the function, you will still get one time period worth of the function. This is very useful when working with short loops where it is important to maintain a rhythmic length. With SUS you can get much quicker Inserts and Multiplies than you could if you had to press the button twice. Note that this quantized behavior is true with other SUS functions, like Replace and Substitute. 
With Quantize = CYC it's easy to create rhythmic sequences of sounds when using SUS commands. 
With Quantize = 8th a short press of Multiply will change the loop length to one Cycle divided by the value of 8th/Cycle. 

See also: Multiply, Insert, RecordMode, OverdubMode, Quantize, SUS MIDI Commands, MIDI Command List 
Sustain Action SUSNextLoop Play Mode 
Jump to the Next Loop and back. 
SUSNextLoop is an interesting special case of the SUS MIDI Commands described in the MIDI section. SUSNextLoop is only available as a MIDI command, and is located at Source# + 20. 
With SUSNextLoop, pressing it puts you into the Next Loop and releasing it returns you to the previous loop. In other words, NoteOn puts you into the Next Loop and the NoteOff brings you back. This allows you to bounce in and out of an alternate loop from your main loop. 
Combining SUSNextLoop with functions like AutoRecord and LoopCopy can give many interesting possibilities for creating alternate loops to bounce in and out of. 
Note that only sending the NoteOff component of SUSNextLoop gives you the command PreviousLoop. 

See also: NextLoop, PreviousLoop, SUS MIDI Commands, MIDI Command List 
Undo Immediate Action Play Mode 
Cancels the previous action or erases the previous Overdub pass. 
Undo can be used to cancel a function that youve already started or to erase your last few Overdub passes, Multiply cycles, or Insert operations. In situations when your loop length is short compared to the total amount of memory available in the loop, Undo is easy to use. When memory gets short, you may be limited in the number of steps that you can Undo. 

BASIC UNDO OPERATION 
The basic operation of Undo is simple: 

n If you have pressed a button by mistake, press Undo to cancel the operation. The loop will be restored to the state it was in before you started the operation, if possible. In this way, if you accidentally press something like Record, you can recover your loop. The Echoplex even keeps track of where in the original loop you would have been, so you can go back to it without even falling out of rhythm! 
n After an operation like Overdub that changes the loop, a Long-Press of Undo will erase the entire last layer of sound added (if possible). Additional long presses will erase as many layers of sound as memory permits, from the most recent to the most remote. 
n A Short-Press of Undo will only remove the tail end of the last layer, beginning at the time of the button press. In this way, if you Overdub a passage and play a bad note at the end, you can Undo just that note and keep the rest of the Overdub. 
n Undo can even remove passes of Feedback. If you reduce Feedback and let your loop fade down, each press of Undo will take away one layer of Feedback reduction, so your  loop fades back up to the original. If you combine this with Overdub you can get very creative results, where you 
Undo 
Continued 
evolve your loop in one direction with Overdub and Feedback, Undo it back a ways, and then evolve it in a different direction. 
Operation of Undo depends on memory availability. The Echoplex monitors this for you. When Undo is possible, you will see the Undo LED is green. When it is not possible, the Undo LED will be off. 

The Undo button serves some alternate roles in certain cases.  
n  The Undo button can be used to escape from SamplePlay. SamplePlay is where a loop has been triggered to play once like a sampler, and allows retriggering and stuttering effects. Pressing Undo during a SamplePlay puts you seamlessly back into PlayMode, so your loop keeps going instead of stopping at the end. This is really useful if you are doing a lot of retriggers for stutter effects, and then finally decide to let the loop keep playing. You just have to press Undo and it seamlessly continues!  
n  When a loop is in Mute, pressing Undo triggers the loop to come out of Mute and start playing from the StartPoint. Normally when you come out of Mute by pressing Mute again, the loop comes back on where it would be if it had continued playing. Note that the MuteMode parameter reverses these roles.  
n  The Undo button is how you access the TempoSelect function while in Reset. See the TempoSelect section in this chapter for more information on using this feature.  

ALTERNATIVE ROLES FOR UNDO 
CONTROLLING UNDO WITH MIDI 
Several MIDI commands are available for controlling Undo. These can 
give you more flexibility than the front panel Undo button alone. 

n The Undo VirtualButton MIDI command is located at Source# + 7. This command emulates the action of the front panel Undo button, and 
Reference - Functions 5-73 
Undo 
Continued 
is exactly equivalent to using it in every way. For example, holding the Undo VirtualButton down for half a second will do a Long-Press of Undo. 

n The DirectMIDI ShortUndo command is located at Source# + 19. This command is the same as doing a Short-Press of the Undo button, and will Undo material in an Overdub from the point where the command is sent to the end of the loop. 
n The DirectMIDI LongUndo command is located at Source# + 31. This command is the same as doing a Long-Press of the Undo button, and will immediately Undo an entire Overdub pass. With the LongUndo command there is no need to hold it down for a long press, it happens immediately. 
UNDER THE HOOD 
If you really want to understand the way that Undo interacts with memory limitations, you have to take a look at the way memory is used and understand the concept of the Playback Loop, all of which well explain in the next few paragraphs. 


When Memory Is Ample 
Figure 4.11 shows the normal operation of Overdub in a situation where memory is ample. When the Overdub button is first pressed, the Echoplex copies the beginning of the loop to a new memory area (marked "A" in the diagram). It then mixes the previously-recorded material with the new material into area B. When the Overdub ends, it copies the remainder of the original loop to area C. This fills out seconds 40-80 of memory with a complete loop, the result of the Overdub. The Echoplex then alters its playback loop so that the new recording is heard, even though the original recording also resides in memory. 

Undo 
Continued 


FIGURE 4.11 
Basic operation of Overdub when memory is ample. 


If, instead of completing the Overdub normally, you press the Undo button to terminate it, the Echoplex simply resets the playback loop to play back the first 40 seconds and marks the memory area that it was using for the Overdub as available for the next operation. 


When Memory Is Tight 
Now lets look at what happens in a tight memory situation. Figure 4.12 shows the course of an Overdub/Undo when the original loop is 40 seconds long, and total memory is 50 seconds. As before, when you first press the Overdub button, the Echoplex copies the beginning of the existing loop to a free area at the end of memory. In this case, that segment occupies all of free memory (the original loop was 40 seconds long, Overdub is pressed at 10 seconds into the loop, so 10 seconds is copied to free memory, filling it). 
Undo 
Continued 

FIGURE 4.12 
The difficulty of Undoing in tight memory situations 

O  
..  
U  
..  

 
Pla yback l o op  

Final 20 seconds of Overdub 
recording newly-recorded material is 30 seconds, from the start of the Remnants of original loop
loop until the time Undo was pressed). 
0 102030 40 50 
At this point, theres nowhere to put the new material mixed with the old. So the Echoplex starts overwriting the original loop. By the time the Undo button is pressed, 30 seconds of material have been newly-recorded: the 10 seconds copied from the first loop, plus 20 seconds of mixed material. This mixed material has overwritten the first 20 seconds of the original loop. Theres no way to Undo, because the original loop is gone. 
In this case, that press of the Undo button will set the playback loop to play back seconds 0-40 of memory. But what you will hear will not be the original loop; instead, it will be the final 20 seconds of the Overdub followed by the final 20 seconds of the original loop. Its an interesting effect, but it may not be what you were shooting for. 

5-76 Echoplex Digital Pro Plus Users Manual 
Undo 
Continued 






