
Example 4.9: Basic Behavior: InsertMode=Insert, Quantize Off 
The Insert function is started by pressing the Insert button. There are several ways to end the function, but the most natural and common is to press the Insert button a second time. When you do this, you will always insert an exact number of cycles; in other words, youll change the loop length but not the underlying cycle length. Figure 4.1 demonstrates this behavior when Quantize=Off. 
When you examine Figure 4.1, youll see that there are two possible results shown, depending on the  RoundMode. If RoundMode=Round, then the timing of your second press of the Insert button isnt critical everything in the current cycle (measured from the first press of Insert) is recorded. In contrast, if RoundMode=Off, then a section of silence (marked "A" in the figure) is inserted to fill out the time from the Insert press to the end of the insertion cycle. 

Insert 
Continued 

FIGURE 4.1  
Basic operation of the Insert button.  Existing Loop  
InsertMode=Insert or  
Rehearse  
Quantize=Off  New Performance  
Button Actions  
Results when  
RoundMode=rnd  
Results when  
RoundMode=Off  





Example 4.10: The Effect of Quantization 
When Quantize=On, a press of the Insert button will cause insertion to start at the beginning of the next cycle. As in the previous example, ending the insertion with a second press of Insert will cause an exact number of cycles to be insertedthe insertion will end at the end of the current cycle (see Figure 4.2). 
Unlike Example 4.9, the setting of RoundMode will not have any affect when Quantize=On. Any music played after the second press of the Insert button will be recorded until the Insert ends. 
Insert 
Continued 

FIGURE 4.2 Quantized operation of the Insert button. InsertMode=Insert or Rehearse Quantize=On  Existing Loop New Performance Button Actions  
Results when RoundMode=rnd  
Results when RoundMode=Off  




ALTERNATE ENDINGS 
The simplest way to end an Insert operation is to press the Insert button a second time. Youll get the results illustrated in examples above. However, you can also end the Insert by pressing any of the buttons whose front-panel lights are on during the Insert. Youll get some interesting results, as illustrated in the next few examples. 

UNDO 
If you end an Insert operation by pressing Undo, the loop will be returned to its state before you pressed Insert. See the Undo heading in this chapter for more information. 

Insert 
Continued 


RECORD 
Ending an Insert operation with the Record button causes the insert to end immediately, without waiting for the end of the current insertion cycle. Since the loop cant contain fractional cycles, the entire new loop will be considered a single cycle. This is called an Unrounded Insert. Figure 4.3 illustrates this behavior. 
FIGURE 4.3 
Existing Cycles
Ending Insert with Record changes the cycle length. 





Existing Loop
InsertMode=Insert or Rehearse Quantize=Off 
New Performance 
Button Actions 
Results 
New Cycle 



OVERDUB 
Ending an Insert with Overdub is exactly like ending it with Insert, except that you also toggle Overdub mode. If you had Overdub off before the Insert, it will now be on. Its the equivalent of ending the insertion by pressing Insert a second time, and then pressing Overdub immediately. 
Insert 
Continued 


MULTIPLY 
Ending an Insert with Multiply is exactly like ending it with Insert, except that you are immediately put into Multiply mode. Its the equivalent of ending the insertion by pressing Insert a second time, and then pressing Multiply immediately. 


MUTE 
Ending an insertion with Mute is exactly like ending it with Insert, except that  you will go immediately into the Mute mode once the Insert has ended. The audible sound from the loop will remain off as Insert ends. Once youre in Mute mode, you can restart the sound with the mute button or with the Alternate Endings listed for the Mute entry later in this chapter. 

LONG PRESS = REPLACE 
The Insert button can also be used to replace material that is in the loop. This is accomplished by holding down Insert as you play the new material, instead of pressing and releasing it, as shown in Figure 4-4. The Replace will continue as long as you hold Insert down. 

Insert 
Continued 

FIGURE 4.4 Replacing with a long press of the Insert button. InsertMode=Insert.  Existing Loop New Performance  
Button Actions  
Resulting Loop  

.... .... ....  .. ..  ................. ................. .................  
...II  
.... .... ... ................. ................. .................  

Time 


INSERTMODE=REHEARSE 
When InsertMode=Rehearse, the behavior of the Insert button as a way to end recording changes. Rehearse allows you to practice a part before committing it to a loop. 
See Rehearse in the Functions section for more information. 

INSERTMODE=REPLACE 
